TrelloTools/README.md, before:

# Trello AI Tools

This directory contains AI-powered tools for managing Trello boards, lists, cards, and other Trello resources through the Vercel AI SDK.

## Setup

### 1. Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in your project root with the following variables:

```env
# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here

# Trello API Configuration
# Get these from: https://trello.com/app-key
TRELLO_API_KEY=your_trello_api_key_here
TRELLO_API_TOKEN=your_trello_api_token_here
```

### 2. Getting Trello API Credentials

1. Go to [Trello App Key](https://trello.com/app-key)
2. Copy your API Key
3. Generate a token by visiting: `https://trello.com/1/authorize?key=YOUR_API_KEY&response_type=token&scope=read,write&expiration=never&name=TrelloAI`
4. Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your actual API key
5. Authorize the application and copy the token

## Available Tools

### Board Tools (`BoardTools/`)

- **createBoard**: Create new Trello boards with custom settings
- **getBoard**: Retrieve detailed board information
- **updateBoard**: Modify board properties and settings
- **deleteBoard**: Permanently delete boards
- **listBoards**: List all accessible boards with filtering

## Usage

The tools are automatically integrated into your AI chatbot. Users can interact with them through natural language:

### Examples

- "Create a new board called 'Project Planning'"
- "Show me all my boards"
- "Get details for board ID 12345"
- "Update the board settings to make it public"
- "Delete the board with ID 67890"

## Tool Features

### Comprehensive Board Management

- Full CRUD operations for boards
- Detailed board information retrieval
- Flexible filtering and field selection
- Error handling and validation

### Security

- Environment variable protection
- Input validation using Zod schemas
- Proper error handling and user feedback

### AI Integration

- Natural language processing
- Streaming responses
- Multi-step tool usage
- Context-aware responses

## Architecture

```
TrelloTools/
├── BoardTools/
│   ├── create-board.ts
│   ├── get-board.ts
│   ├── update-board.ts
│   ├── delete-board.ts
│   ├── list-boards.ts
│   └── index.ts
├── index.ts
└── README.md
```

## Future Enhancements

- List management tools
- Card management tools
- Member management tools
- Team/Organization tools
- Power-up integration tools

## Error Handling

All tools include comprehensive error handling:

- API credential validation
- Network error handling
- Trello API error responses
- User-friendly error messages

## Contributing

When adding new tools:

1. Follow the existing pattern in `BoardTools/`
2. Use Zod for input validation
3. Include comprehensive error handling
4. Add proper TypeScript types
5. Update the main index file
6. Add tool descriptions to the system prompt

Commit message:

made the crud tools for lists in trello

TrelloTools/README.md, after:

# Trello AI Tools

This directory contains AI-powered tools for managing Trello boards, lists, cards, and other Trello resources through the Vercel AI SDK.

## Setup

### 1. Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in your project root with the following variables:

```env
# OpenAI API Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here

# Trello API Configuration
# Get these from: https://trello.com/app-key
TRELLO_API_KEY=your_trello_api_key_here
TRELLO_API_TOKEN=your_trello_api_token_here
```

### 2. Getting Trello API Credentials

1. Go to [Trello App Key](https://trello.com/app-key)
2. Copy your API Key
3. Generate a token by visiting: `https://trello.com/1/authorize?key=YOUR_API_KEY&response_type=token&scope=read,write&expiration=never&name=TrelloAI`
4. Replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with your actual API key
5. Authorize the application and copy the token

## Available Tools

### Board Tools (`BoardTools/`)

- **createBoard**: Create new Trello boards with custom settings
- **getBoard**: Retrieve detailed board information
- **updateBoard**: Modify board properties and settings
- **deleteBoard**: Permanently delete boards
- **listBoards**: List all accessible boards with filtering

### List Tools (`ListTools/`)

- **createList**: Create new lists within boards with custom positioning
- **getList**: Retrieve detailed list information including cards
- **updateList**: Modify list properties, position, and settings
- **deleteList**: Permanently delete lists
- **listLists**: List all lists in a board with filtering

## Usage

The tools are automatically integrated into your AI chatbot. Users can interact with them through natural language:

### Examples

**Board Operations:**

- "Create a new board called 'Project Planning'"
- "Show me all my boards"
- "Get details for board ID 12345"
- "Update the board settings to make it public"
- "Delete the board with ID 67890"

**List Operations:**

- "Create a new list called 'To Do' in board 12345"
- "Show me all lists in board 12345"
- "Get details for list ID 67890"
- "Update the list name to 'In Progress'"
- "Delete the list with ID 67890"

## Tool Features

### Comprehensive Board Management

- Full CRUD operations for boards
- Detailed board information retrieval
- Flexible filtering and field selection
- Error handling and validation

### Security

- Environment variable protection
- Input validation using Zod schemas
- Proper error handling and user feedback

### AI Integration

- Natural language processing
- Streaming responses
- Multi-step tool usage
- Context-aware responses

## Architecture

```
TrelloTools/
├── BoardTools/
│   ├── create-board.ts
│   ├── get-board.ts
│   ├── update-board.ts
│   ├── delete-board.ts
│   ├── list-boards.ts
│   └── index.ts
├── index.ts
└── README.md
```

## Future Enhancements

- List management tools
- Card management tools
- Member management tools
- Team/Organization tools
- Power-up integration tools

## Error Handling

All tools include comprehensive error handling:

- API credential validation
- Network error handling
- Trello API error responses
- User-friendly error messages

## Contributing

When adding new tools:

1. Follow the existing pattern in `BoardTools/`
2. Use Zod for input validation
3. Include comprehensive error handling
4. Add proper TypeScript types
5. Update the main index file
6. Add tool descriptions to the system prompt
